- [Instructor] At the heart of JDBC operations
is that JDBC driver.
And we're going to take a look at how to actually use
the JDBC driver
in association with the connection manager
to make a connection to our database
so that we can start doing work within that database itself.
So let's jump into our IDE
and we're going to open up our project
and source main Java and then our package.
And we're going to create a new class
and that class is going to be called
DatabaseConnectionManager.
Now this is a pattern that I often use with databases
to have a central place of handling
all of our connection needs within the system.
Now the first thing that we're going to do
is we're going to put a private final string called URL
and we're also going to do a private final properties
called Properties.
Now we're going to create a constructor for our class
and we're going to pass in a few values to our constructor.
The first is the host
and then a database name
and then a username
and then a password.
Now often you would brings this in
through some sort of configuration mechanism,
specifically something like a properties file.
But in this case, we're just going to pass them
into our constructor from our main method.
Let me go ahead and make this a little bit easier to read.
All right, so now in this method,
we're going to set our URL equal to JDBC postgresql://
Then I'm going to add in the host value that comes in
then I'm going to put another slash
and then I'm going to pass in the database name.
Now again, this is not really the best form
when you're dealing with production system.
But for the purposes of our demo,
this at least gets the point across
and that's really the important part.
Now we're going to set some properties here,
but to do that we need to instantiate it.
And now we will set our username
to the property of user
and we will set our password
to the property of password.
And that's all we need in our constructor.
Now we're going to create a simple method
that returns a connection
and this is from Java.sql
and we will call this getConnection.
Now our connection,
we'll throw an SQL exception
and we're going to talk about SQL exceptions
later on in the course.
But for right now,
we'll just go ahead and throw it.
And what I'm going to do
is I'm going to return a DriverManager.getConnection
and I'm going to pass it, this.url and this.properties.
And that's all we need to do to create a connection
to our database.
So let's jump back over here to our JDBC Executor.
Okay, so we're going to replace the text here
and create an instance of our DatabaseConnectionManager,
create a new instance of our DatabaseConnectionManager
and we're going to pass in localhost
since we're running our database locally.
And we are going to pass in the name which is hplussport.
And then we will pass in our user
which in this case is postgres.
And we will pass in our password
which has that uber secure password of password.
So now we're going to build a try block
and we're going to create a connection
from our DatabaseConnectionManager.
And we will create a simple statement
and we're going to talk a lot more
about what we're doing later
but this is just to show you that it's working.
So we'll get a statement from our connection.
So now we're going to create an instance of resultSet
and this is from java.sql
and we're going to do that equal to statement,
that execute query
and the query that we are going to pass it is
select count parentheses star from customer.
And then we're going to iterate over our resultSet
and we will simply do a system.out.printline
on resultSet.getInt because it's a count
and it will be the first value that comes across.
And now all we need to do is catch our SQLException.
And if we get one,
we will simply do an e.printStackTrace on that.
So now we're ready to run our method.
Now before we do that,
we want to make sure that our database is running.
So we'll do that by just doing PSQL -h of localhost
dash uppercase U of postgres.
Type in our password of password
and we've connected to our database
which means it is actually running.
So now we can jump back to our code
and run our main method.
And as the terminal runs,
you'll see that we have 1000 records on our customer table
which corresponds to the SQL script
that we've already imported.